# Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones -- Tidy DataSet

This repository contains a tidy dataset (tidy_avgs.txt) obtained by manipulating data from the Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones project.

## Source

The data used here come from the site
[http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones).
This data represents results of 10299 observations generated by one of 30 volunteers performing one of six activities, with 561 features computed in each case from the accelerometer and gyroscope of a Samsung Galaxy phone.

## Process

The data was processed using R version 3.1.3 (2015-03-09), with packages plyr version 1.8.1, dplyr version 0.4.1, data.table version 1.9.4, reshape2 version 1.4.1.

The data and activity and feature labels from the original dataset were combined, then averages computed and reported for the mean and standard deviation features.
Processing details are included in the script run_analysis.R.

## Included Files

README.md: this document; explains contents of repository and process used to generate tidy dataset.

CodeBook.md: Explanation of individual variables in the tidy dataset tidy_avgs.txt.

run_analysis.R: 
R script used to generate tidy_avgs.txt from source data.

tidy_avgs.txt:
Tidy dataset created by run_analysis.R.

## Reference

[1] Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Xavier Parra and Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz. Human Activity Recognition on Smartphones using a Multiclass Hardware-Friendly Support Vector Machine. International Workshop of Ambient Assisted Living (IWAAL 2012). Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain. Dec 2012
